Okay, now right after you left England you came
back and you were assigned as director of the
training of Harledge and Gunnery School in late
1941.
Tell me about that. What was the objective? Teach
aerial gunners how to shoot and of course maintain
their weapons.
Were you, did you feel that you were successful
about doing this?
There are two answers to that. The answer, the
medium obvious answer is yes, reasonably so. Not
too well, but reasonably so. But to say that this
effort made a significant contribution in the war
is not so. They didn't get there in time. I see. That
sounds ridiculous, but just to think that we
started then and were not able to get them into
combat at the time, but we did the best we could. You
were there on December 7, 1941, I would imagine.
Yes. What did you think of the Japanese attack on
Pearl Harbor? Were you surprised? Did you have any
feelings toward it?
Let's put it this way. When I came back from
England, I of course reported to my commander and
said, we are in the war. The people of the country
don't know it yet, but we are. And we will be in the
war, Atlantic or Pacific or both, by June of 42.
This is a certainty. It was in my mind. and made a
deal with him that I'd start this school in
Harlingen as a goal.
To say that I was surprised that we were in war
wouldn't be quite accurate because we already
were in the war.
To say that I was surprised that our garrison could
have been surprised to the extent that they were,
yes, I was.
a blunder in the first consequence.
How long did you stay in Texas? Then you went to
commander in Laredo as the gunnery school. How
long did you stay before you were finally assigned
to Europe? Well, until the summer of 43. What
happened again was that by the time we got things
going, I know we did work our ass off to get it going
as quickly as we could. The commander changed, and
he came down and invited himself out to my house for
lunch to tell me that I was not going overseas, but I
was going to Laredo. And I tried to talk my way out of
it, but I couldn't. In other words, you wanted to go
to the war. That was what I was being paid for.
That's what I'd held my hand up to do, and I felt that
that was the only thing worthwhile tutors for men.
Now mind you, this didn't apply to everybody. God
damn it, I had lots of guys, and damn good ones I
might add, who just shucked off their civilian
clothes and got into uniform to do what they could.
But god damn it, I was a professional. That is what I
had held up my hand to do many, many years before,
and I felt very strongly about it, and still do as a
matter of fact.
Because that wasn't the only time it happened.
I got it greased again, and then the commander of
the training command. I was down at Laredo then,
and I was getting all kinds of cast-off airplanes.
I'd ask for them. So I'm not blaming anybody for
that. I just, if nobody doesn't want an airplane,
we got a use for it type of thing. And I got an old
short wind V-26. And the guy that brought it in
caught a train and left. And there are no data books
with it. I was out there after work toward dark one
evening trying to figure out how to get it started
so I could test fly it. And this airplane pulled up
alongside me. I was by myself. And I was in a dirty
flying seat. And it was Tommy Power. He later
commanded SAC, who was this guy's aide. And so they
got out. And the old man had to go to the Diffie. So
Tommy said, what the hell are you fixing to do? And I
told him. And he said, no, by God, you're not.
Anyway, I didn't know this airplane was a true dog.
I was ordered not to fly it anywhere. Nobody else
could. The bitchin' thing sat on the line there for
a month before we ever got any poop that came
supposed to come with it. That's not a part of the
story. Yott, who was the commanding general, by
that time I'd gotten a car to the line, an official
car, and put him in it. And he said, I want to go look
at your ground range. And I knew goddamn well he
didn't. Things like that didn't interest him. But
what he wanted to do and what he did was get me off by
myself to tell me again that I wasn't going. And I
sure didn't like that.
So you didn't get to go until the summer of 1943.
Yeah, and that was a fluke. And how did that come
about? Because, by God, again, the same thing. I
organized it.
Well I wasn't there as a combat soldier, I was there
as an observer. Manning a gun, of course, on the
missions, I believe, but I had wired it up with the
8th Air Force. I had an old friend there, Fred
Anderson. A classmate of mine from the military
academy. Hell of a good man. I had arranged it so
that I could stay,
When I shot up, the upshot of it was that we were
ditched down in the Turanian Sea between Naples
and Sicily. Couldn't make it. We were on a shuttle
on to Africa. So you were going from where to
Africa? Anyway, when I got in the rubber boat, I
said, God damn, I may not be back in London in time to
meet the date I had to. see whether or not I was going
to have to go back before I came back. Anyway, that
didn't work either.
The Germans picked me up the next day. Oh, the
Germans did? Yeah. I don't think any of this is
humane. So this is 1943? August 17, 1943. 43. 43.
And you were flying as an observer Actually, I was
flying as a gunner. I was assigned to the theater as
an observer in much the same kind of orders that I'd
been assigned to the RAF. And as far as the guy I was
working for at the time was concerned, I was coming
back. But my immediate commander, and I had a
different point of view about it, and he'd already
arranged, and I knew he had, nobody else did, for my
replacement. And whether this thing that I had
tried to work out would have worked, I don't know.
Chances are I'd have been killed anyhow. But it
doesn't matter. Too many years ago, and it doesn't
figure in what you're talking about here. Now, why
did the plane have to ditch? Well, see, we'd lost
two engines. And we shot up, not badly. Over Italy?
No, no, over Germany. No, see, what happened...
You see, you said you had to ditch in the
Mediterranean. Did, but see, the mission was
to... a shuttle run. We would have landed more and
the remainder of the outfit dead. LeMay was
leading it. And, oh God, I don't see any reason to
talk about all this.
We got shot up and shot out of the formation and
managed to get an engine back in and got back in the
formation just in time to bomb and then fell out
again. Now, we went through the pass, through the
Brenner Pass, because we couldn't make the
altitude, figuring we were going to get to the
final point, which is Bourne. But we ran out of
oomph and had to ditch. We finally ended up with one
engine and ditched with one engine. Off Naples? It
was about midway between Naples and Sicily.
Mm-hmm. I by that time knew we weren't going to make
it to Bonn, but I did think that we could make it to
Sicily. See, Sicily was in the conflict at the
time. And in fact, I've been told all kinds of
untruths about what the situation was in Italy,
but that's not germane. In fact, the whole damn
thing is, I don't see any particular reason I don't
know why this would figure in a story, but go ahead
and ask the question and I'll answer it. Well then,
once you were down in the water, how long was it
before the Germans picked you up? They picked us up
next morning, about probably 9 o'clock in the
morning. Were there any casualties on the plane?
Oh, not appreciable, no. I got a splinter not
enough to amount to anything. In fact, it didn't
come out of hand until back in this country. And the
radio man got a slight hit. Actually, a piece hit
his gun and knocked it out of commission. It wasn't
worth a damn anyway. But that's all. And then when
you were, so you floated? That's a very, very
sturdy airplane, a B-17. Yeah. And so you were
floating in life rafts overnight and the next
morning the Germans picked you up. This was a
pretty heavy
loss raid. When I was taken in finally in
interrogation I found out why the Germans had the
raid Where they got it, I don't know. I think
probably off the coding system, but they had it.
And they had it from takeoff points in England and
tapes. And they had their fighters dispersed down
the whole route. So it was a pretty busy day. And we
lost quite a few airplanes.
Well, what were your thoughts when the Germans
picked you up? I thought, oh shit, what else?
Excuse me for the expression.
The thing was that the flying boat came alongside,
it landed and came alongside, and this guy had in
the front what we call the meat can gun position,
and I on the boats. We had our lifeboats tied
together and nothing we could do except throw our
arms overboard and what we had that would sink and
when they said come and she meant that's what we had
to do. Now where, they flew you to a POW camp? Well
actually I stayed in Naples a while.
got loose in a while, that doesn't matter. And then
were put on the train, and that took quite a while
because we had a pretty good rage going on. And then
ended up at Frankfurt, which is where the
interrogation center was. How did the Germans
treat you? Quite correctly. I have no criticism of
the Germans. I'm a lifelong prejudice against
Japanese. If I'm aware of it, I won't buy anything
made in Japan. I just detest them. I can't help it.
And I know it's a prejudice. It's unjustified, but
I've got it. I won't lose it. Not about the Germans.
What type of questions did the Germans ask you when
they started to interrogate you? Oh, the usual
ones. The interrogator that I was assigned to, as
it were, was under no illusion about who was going
to win the war. In fact, none of the German
intelligence officers had any doubts about it.
They knew who was going to win the war. They knew
that they didn't have the force to oppose us with.
How could you tell? When you got close enough to
them, they'd tell you. They would actually tell
you that? Oh, yes. Look, they wouldn't tell just
anybody that.
But,
Jesus, I don't see any use in going through all
this. See, my assignment as a prisoner was
what you might call counterintelligence, to be in
charge of escape activities and counter-German
activities. And we had specifically two Germans
assigned that had no doubt whatsoever about what
the outcome of the war would be. One of them
survived and was in care packages for a while, and
then we got him a job during the bad times in
Germany, He's dead now. The other one,
apparently. In other words, did he come to America
later? No, we got him a job in Germany. He had to stay
there. But he had kinfolks in America. This
particular one, the one that survived. See, his
uncle owned a bank at Hampton, Virginia, which is
next door to Langley. And the people at Langley all
knew him. And this man had been there, and he'd
worked in New York, worked for Hamburg American in
New York for a long time. And he was doing his duty,
but he wasn't in a doubt whatsoever as to what the
outcome of the war would be. And the other one had
married one of the Bush heiresses, and she got
tired of him. She divorced him, but he'd lived in
the United States a long time, too. We tried to find
him, and I actually went through the Russians. We
got some of them back from the Russians, some of
them that had helped us. But they had no record of
him, and nobody else did. But he'd been ordered to
Berlin a few days before the collapse. And we
tracked him that far, and so I suppose he was killed
in Berlin. I don't know. Anyway, we never found
him.
I'm trying to say in an illustrative way that this
experience is not like any other experience. And
the general assumptions made about it are
generally wrong. And what do you mean they're
wrong? Well, in some respects it was much worse
than people think it was. In other respects it was
much better. Oh, can you explain that? No. But when
I talk to another POW, he knows exactly what I'm
talking about. Okay, now you said that you were in
charge of breaking
out of the camps. Look, I don't want to overdo this.
Most of the time it was very boring. Yeah, I would
think so. I can say this, I was probably Hitler's
most traveled guest before this was over. I was in
more than one place. But I don't want to make
anything out of it because it wasn't any big deal.
And the part that I was concerned with was one
compound. There were others, Americans and
British. When I first got there, they were all
British. And we went into a British. Later on, the
Germans sorted us out and put the British here. And
and the Americans there, and then as the Americans
came in and fledged, then they had to build other
compounds for them. And I was just in this
particular one little place. What was the name of
it? It was Stalag Luft III, Mittellager.
Mittellager means center camp. And Stalag Luft
III is the big one that was over in what is now
Poland, which was then east of Germany.
Then they set up another one in a place called
Barth, which is up on the North Sea, but that was
later. You must remember they were just a whole
hell of a slew of Americans shot down in that deal.
Sure.
Were you at all fearful that you were going to be
liberated by the Soviets? I knew we wouldn't.
I made some whiskey on that deal. I bet
indiscriminately with anybody that bet on what
time we would get out of there and which direction
we'd go. I knew it because this was my job. A good
many didn't believe it, but this was helpful
because by the time we had to move, we were prepared
to do it. We had made these guys, most of them
youngsters, young air-crewed people. We'd
forced them to be prepared to go, and they were
prepared. And did the Americans liberate to them,
or did the Germans just let you out? No, no, they
moved us out.
See, it was night, and I had a lot of stuff,
goddammit.
hidden in various places. I had a gun, for example.
The idea of a PW having a gun was simply out of the
question. This was a serious misdemeanor.
Nevertheless, I had it, and ammunition, too. But
in order to secure it, plus a camera and some other
things that were strictly forbidden, I had taken a
piece of a wall off out of part of this particular
compound, this particular place. and put it in
there, and then took
water and poured on it, and the ice formed, and it
was a nice barrier, considerable. Made it look
like it was natural from the rain and so forth. I
didn't have time to get all that stuff out. I'm
trying to illustrate how it was that we moved. We
were trying to see our job as more senior people,
was to keep these kids alive. And I don't mean to say
they were bum kids, they were damn good kids, but
nevertheless they were most of them pretty young
aircrew guys. It was our job to keep them alive. And
on the whole we did fairly well, but that
particular occasion, for example, it was dead
night and snowing, and we had to move out pretty
quick.
And where did the Germans move you? Well, this is a
long story. But let me tell one illustration of how
it was and stop that. We were walking down a country
road in the snow, and didn't know where the hell we
were going to get a chance to sleep. But we all had
these packs that we'd made and were full of stuff
that we'd saved that we needed, food that we could
save. And warm clothes that we could save. And we'd
inspected all of them, see to it that they had as
good shoes as we could put together, and that sort
of thing. All right, we were stopped. And here
comes a tremendous bus the other way, heading
toward the Russian front. And these tremendous
guys got out, all of them in white snow mountain
clothes. whole thing, hood, everything. Great
big men and they were certainly interested and
surprised. Guy comes up to the group I was standing
with and said in a perfect South Carolina accent,
any of you guys got a cigarette?
And before we could react to that, the whistle and
they all had to run back and get in the bus. In other
words, they were on their way to the Russian front.
That's the kind of peculiarity that goes with that
situation. Now, we got on down— And were these
Germans or Americans? Oh, they were Germans.
There were a number of Germans, and I'll say one
more, who had gone back when Hitler promised them
everything, you know. They went back, second
generation Germans, some of them, some of them
were just emigres, and they couldn't leave then.
Once they got back they couldn't get away. One, for
example, this same camp I was talking about,
a shuttle run to a Russian field, I've forgotten
the name of it, some friends of mine were on the rig,
came over They bombed on the way and they were
landed in Russia and then they came back to another
target. Well, they came over to camp, you know,
lots of them. And this man, we called them ferrets
because they just wandered around trying to find
evidence of escape and whatever they could find.
And they wouldn't speak to you, the guards would.
Anyhow, this guy looked out the window and says, my
God, this guy is full of the sons of bitches, in
English. That's exactly what he said. Well, we had
him then. Up to then, we didn't know he spoke a word
of English. He'd been listening to guys. We warned
him about that. Anyhow, we had him. And it turns out
that he spent ten years in the United States. No
kidding. He was more American than he was German.
But that was his job that he was doing. But, to get
back to the question you asked me, we went on to a
place called... It's just out of Berlin. So in
other words they moved you from East Germany to
over by Berlin. Yes, I was taken out of the group
along with the senior officer who was a regular
general and another colonel and a couple other
guys. At this time you were a colonel? Yes, and we
were taken out and told that there was something
special they wanted us to do and we didn't have any
option. So the other guys were put on a train and
sent down to another camp down in Bavaria.
Anyway, I ended
up at a place called Lückenwald, which is on the
other side of Berlin. I went through Berlin that
night, walked through. Was it pretty bombed out?
It had had a raid that day. It was a nightmare, the
thing, because it was still burning and people
were still, you could hear some kinds of help and
that sort of thing. Anyway,
I stayed in looking hard. I'd forgotten how long,
but two were taken out. and sent out through
Switzerland and we demanded that we be put with the
Americans and join them in Heidelberg and walk
from there down to a place near Munich.
Well, what was this special assignment that the
Germans had for you? Oh, they were kind of screwed
up. This was told right at the end of the war, and to
shorten up the story appreciably, those two that
were finally sent on the assignment had orders
from Himmler. See, Himmler was actually, well
anyway, to go back to Washington with a proposal,
and one unbid, the other one stayed to take care of
us. See, our job, as I say, was to keep these guys
alive. And he took this, he only died recently,
with a very dear friend, a close friend of mine, who
saw it as his job to go into the headquarters of the,
of Eisenhower's headquarters, and see to it that
we, who were still in the camp, were taken care of
and did a goddamn good job of it, I might add.
Meanwhile, I was under orders to go with this group
to Mooseburg where we ended up. And is that where
the American Army liberated you? Yes. It worked
all right. It wasn't exactly pleasant, but it
wasn't totally bad.
I thought I had lost one man. I was just madder than
hell about it because I had no option and I left him
in a barn and with word for the Red Cross to pick him
up if they could. The Red Cross was coming up from
Switzerland at the time. He had no money.
I later heard that he had died.
And see, the object of this kind of exercise is to
establish some lines of communication. And I had
them by then. And the German told me that, and he
told it so fluently that I'm sure the guy had died.
Oh, hey, years later, I was in a hurry, admittedly,
coming out of a an operations office
in Germany trying to get to my airplane before the
goddamn ice rains immobilized me. This kid
hollered, Hey, Colonel! And I turned around and
I'm sure as hell it was this kid that I'd left. The
Red Cross had picked him up and got him to a German
hospital and he survived. So I didn't lose any of
them. How many were you in charge of? I only had
about 250, and God knows how many there were on the
road.
It was interesting. I bet you it was very
interesting. What did you do for food? In the first
instance, we had seen to it that those guys
collected every goddamn bit of food that they
could, that you could preserve, and we made them.
learn how to preserve food, how to cook it so you
could keep it. And admittedly, we didn't have a
hell of a lot, but we had enough. It wasn't that way
for everybody.
Now the second go-round,
well, after we had been on the road a little while,
the Red Cross trucks came up from from Switzerland
and met us and dispersed it. And we actually
fed the Germans out of that. And this sounds
screwy, but in order to keep us protected from the
SS, we wanted those guards with us. And they had
nothing to eat except what we gave them. See, this
is asked backwards from the way most people think
of it. Most people think, well, God Almighty, you
want to get away from the guards, and you do, but the
circumstances change, and you act accordingly.
And during the final days of the war, you wanted the
German guards to protect you against the SS. Oh,
this is serious. See, often SS that were moving our
way into the Redoubt, were largely men who were
from all the countries. They were Flemish, they
were French, they were Hungarians, they were
everything, who ended up in the German army. They
didn't have a prayer. They were going to be dead men
when the war was over. And I could tell you about
things they did, but there's no point in that. We
knew what the situation was.
and we wanted those guards with us. What were the
guards' feelings toward the SS? It varied, but in
the main, for example, the officer that was in
charge of the guards that went with us and I became
pretty good friends by the time it was over. He was
an Austrian and he didn't think anything of this
goddamn war anyhow, but he had to be in it. I'll tell
you a story about him.
We'd finally got out of the worst part of the
situation and we were capped and what we did was
send this fella ahead of us on his bicycle to get us a
place that we could all lie down in. Some village,
anyway, some space that would get under cover. In
the first instance, you see that? Sleep in the snow
or whatever. And he did a good job on that. We were
sitting in a farmer's kitchen the men with me that
were more or less in charge of this deal. And we were
having a pretty good breakfast because the
farmer's wife had given us a couple of eggs apiece.
They were hard to get. Of course, we'd given her
some soap, which she didn't have. Anyhow, we were
feeling good. And he came in, and we ribbed him that
he had done so well for us that we thought he ought to
get a medal. But we didn't know whether he ought to
get the medal from Roosevelt or Hitler because
he'd done a job for the Germans and he'd done a job
for us too. That was our dilemma and what do you
think about it? Well, he pulled off his military
cap and threw it on the floor and stomped on it. I
don't want no medals, no medals. All I want is a
civilian hat. I'll
always remember him. But he was just caught in this
dilemma then.
What do you mean? Well, he was caught in between
trying to protect you, and trying to keep you as
prisoners. Exactly where we wanted him. Sure.
In the main, the people that we associated with
were like that. When you're in the clutch, I mean
when you're really in a serious situation, The one
thing you could depend on was that they would abide
by the rules. Now, you couldn't depend on that with
the SS or the Security Service.
Anyway, if you got into their hands, you had to get
the Luftwaffe to get you out. And they would.
That's where the communications links came in.
When we found out they had somebody in frame over in
Paris, for example, if we went to our Luftwaffe guy
and said, that guy's in frame, he didn't ask you how
you knew. He had a police suspicion, I guess, but
he'd get you out. And once you were in the hands of
the German military, you could depend on their
abiding by the rules. And that's important. The
Japanese didn't.
Well, when you left then, you were liberated
probably in May of 1945. I believe it was April.
April 1945. What happened, the force came in and
just pushed the gates down and the SS shot the
guards. They just shot them with no god damn reason
except that... Shot the German guards? They
machine gunned the guard house. This sounds well,
I'll tell it. This is just before the Americans
came in. Two things happened. The SS had some
prisoners of their own, some of these poor
bastards, and God, you wouldn't believe what they
looked like. Skinny? They were all kinds, but they
were Germans as well. people of this country I
don't think realize about Hitler's regime is they
didn't just do this to Jews. They did this to
anybody that was against them. Anyway, they shot
some of them. They lined them up and shot one here
and one here and just left them lie there. And they
came by the guard house, the guard men's house,
little barrack-like building, hardly any bigger
than these two rooms, and told the guards they were
going down to the redoubt and they said, The guard
said, no, we're going to stay here with the
Americans. So by God, they machine gunned the
house and killed several of them. Didn't kill them
all, but killed three or four of them. Anyway,
shortly after that, the Americans came in with
weapons carriers and tanks and broke down the
gates. And the SS had left? Yes. These people were
the kind of people I told you they were. house
landers that had no future. When they went home,
they were dead, and they knew it.
So they acted that way. And so then the Americans
came in, did they give you any kind of hospital care
or medical treatment or food, or how did they?
Look, they fed us as best they could. When I first
got in the cab, This was a, I guess you'd say it was a
surge of prisoners. The summer of 43 it was a pretty
big scale operation for the 8th Air Force, and they
got a lot of them in. The Germans weren't prepared
for them. We went in with the British, and the
British were getting, by that time, were getting
food, not a hell of a lot, but some, through the Red
Cross, Britain, in through Sweden, down to
Israel. So the British shared with us. They shared
everything. And of course, when things got tight
for them, we shared the family. It was a two-way
street. But the Germans didn't give us much.
Later, it was a little better. It was not good. But
they did give us stuff. And I'd say that on balance,
we ate about half off the Americans and half off the
Germans, something like that. Well, how'd you get
your half? Was this Red Cross food? Oh, well, they
were, again, a part of the German mystique. When it
was a Red Cross authorized delivery, by God, you
got it. They wouldn't consider taking any of it off
for themselves. That's just the way they are, or
were, with us. Let me illustrate what I mean. I told
you I was taking them to this special place just out
of Berlin, and I'd quit smoking long before
because I don't smoke now at all, but I did then. It
wasn't worth it. Besides, it's great trading
material. So my wife had arranged to send through
the Red Cross tobacco. Well, this place that we
left was you might imagine, utter chaos. And how
the British man responsible for Red Cross knew
that I was in this particular place, I was, I'm
damned if I know. But one day he came in, two big
packs of pipe tobacco addressed to me. It had been
stopped because it couldn't be delivered,
obviously, where it had been. The Russians were
there by then, I guess. But there it was, and you
recognized the name, and the Germans weren't
about to take it, so they gave it to him. Of course, I
traded it for food, and warm clothes. Well, hell,
it doesn't interest me a goddamn bit, but you ask
the question, and I'll answer it. Well, what about
when you were on the East, in East Germany, before
you left that area? Were the Germans fearful of the
Russian advance? Oh, look, the Germans were under
no illusion whatsoever about the Russians. We
were. I wasn't because I had better information.
No.
No, they were under no illusion about it at all. And
it proved out. I had some friends that were caught
in the mess when the Russians came in and took the
country, and they were pretty bad. I mean, they
raped women right out on the street, things like
that. And I'm not saying I saw this, but friends of
mine who did see it and would have no reason
whatsoever to lie about it, they just tell me what
they saw and what happened, and it was pretty bad.
Now, after our Tell me a little bit about the
relationships between the British prisoners of
war and the American prisoners of war. You did
mention that you shared food. Did you share
command too? I mean, as you as an American colonel,
were you in charge of British troops or? Oh no,
once we found out what the score was we tried to keep
this thing as separate as we could and we did pretty
good, but it isn't as though there weren't some
peculiar instances. Let me tell you one. Jesus,
I'm talking too much. I owned a guard all right, but
went into a railroad station and the yards had been
bombed and around they'd been bombed and all the
people were down in what you might call the
basement of the railroad station and it was full of
sewage. women and children and what not, but
nevertheless that's where they, what they call an
abort is a biffy, and we had to use it. And there was a
British group captain, correspondents to
Craylon, and this was a lousy circumstance in
which all you had to do was just do it, do something,
and there was a pair of the guys off to go. But he took
charge just as though he were
guiding the Battle of Britain
in issued orders, sternly and all that. Well, we
just laughed at him. But that's the kind of thing
that can happen.
Some people resented it more than others, and some
British resented it more than others, I'm sure.
But some of the finest men I've ever known were
among those people.
No, I'm still alive. Now when you came back to the
United States, you were a prisoner of war and a
returning soldier. How did the American people
treat you? Were you treated as a hero? I wasn't a
hero, Christ no. Here's what happened. I was
first, old friends did this, they knew where I was,
and another guy too. And they sent after us. They
sent an airplane as far as they could go and loaded
the jeep out of them and came and got us. They knew
what we were doing and had been doing. So I ended up
in Rice. That's where the command headquarters
was then. Because the object was to see to it, for
example, we had a sergeant's camp. I'd been to it
down in Austria. It looked kind of bad for them. We
wanted to see to it that they were protected. And
the cap up at Bath,